Add first tutorial lessons (#484)
crystal-lang/crystal-book: docs/tutorials/01_basics/04_strings.md

A string is [immutable](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Immutable_object):
If you apply a modification to a string, you actually get a new string with the
modified content. The original string stays the same.

Strings are written as literals typically enclosed in double quote characters (`"`).

## Interpolation

String interpolation is a convenient method for combining strings: `#{...}` inside a string literal inserts the value of the expression between the curly braces at this position of the string.

```{.crystal .crystal-play}
name = "Crystal"
puts "Hello #{name}"
```

The expression inside an interpolation should be kept short to either a variable or a simple method call. More complex expressions reduce code readability.

The value of the expression doesn't need to be a string. Any type will do and it gets converted to a string representation by calling the `#to_s` method. This method is defined for any object. Let's try with a number:

```{.crystal .crystal-play}
name = 6
puts "Hello #{name}!"
```

!!! note

>     An alternative to interpolation is concatenation. Instead of `"Hello #{name}!"` you could write `"Hello " + name + "!"`. But that's bulkier and has some gotchas with non-string types. Interpolation is generally preferred over concatenation.

Reviewer: Can we be specific about the gotchas? Or just suggest that interpolation is preferred?

Author: Yeah, I don't know. I wouldn't just want to say interpolation is preferred, without a reason. But this is also not the place to get into details.

(one for the end index, and one for excluding the last character).

It can be even easier: Negative index values automatically relate to the end of the string, so we don't need to calculate
the end index from the string size explicitly.

```{.crystal .crystal-play}
message = "Hello World!"

p! message[6..(message.size - 2)],
   message[6..-2]
```

## Substitution

In a very similar manner, we can alter a string. Let's make sure, we properly greet Crystal, and nothing else.
Instead of accessing a substring, we call `#sub`. The first argument is again a range to indicate the location
that gets replaced by the value of the second argument.

```{.crystal .crystal-play}
message = "Hello World!"

p! message.sub(6..-2, "Crystal")
```

The `#sub` method is very versatile and can be used in different way. We could also pass a search string as first argument
and it replaces that substring with the value of the second argument.

```{.crystal .crystal-play}
message = "Hello World!"

p! message.sub("World", "Crystal")
```

`#sub` only replaces the first instance of a search string. It's big brother `#gsub` applies to all instances.

```{.crystal .crystal-play}

> message = "Hello World! Bye World."

Reviewer: Can we do another happier phrase? 🙈

Author: Oh, yeah 😆

```{.crystal .crystal-play}
puts "I say: \"Hello World!\""
```

There are other escape sequences: For example non printable characters such as a line break (`\n`) or a tabulator (`\t`). If you want to write a literal backslash, the escape sequence is a double backslash (`\\`). The null character (codepoint `0`) is a regular character in Crystal strings. In some programming languages this character denotes the end of a string, but in Crystal it's only determined by its `#size` property.

```{.crystal .crystal-play}
puts "I say: \"Hello \\\n\tWorld!\""
```

!!! tip
    You can find more info on available escape sequences in the [string literal reference](../../syntax_and_semantics/literals/string.md#escaping).

### Alternative Delimiters

Some string literals may contain a lot of double quotes – think of HTML tags with quoted argument values for example. It would be cumbersome to have to escape each one with a backslash. Alternative literal delimiters are a convenient alternative. `%(...)` is equivalent to `"..."` except that the delimiters are denoted by parentheses (`(` and `)`) instead of double quotes.

```{.crystal .crystal-play}
puts %(I say: "Hello World!")
```

> Escape sequences and interpolation still works the same way.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Escape sequences and interpolation still work the same way.
```

!!! tip
    You can find more info on alternative delimiters in the [string literal reference](../../syntax_and_semantics/literals/string.md#percent-string-literals).

## Unicode

> Unicode is an international standard for representing text in many different writing systems. Besides letters of the latin alphabet used by English and many other languages, it includes several other character sets. Not just for plain text, but the Unicode standard also includes emojis and icons.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Unicode is an international standard for representing text in many different writing systems. Besides letters of the latin alphabet used by English and many other languages, it includes many other character sets. Not just for plain text, but the Unicode standard also includes emojis and icons.
```

> The following example uses the unicode character [`U+1F310` (*Globe with Meridians*)](https://codepoints.net/U+1F310) to address the world:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example uses the Unicode character [`U+1F310` (*Globe with Meridians*)](https://codepoints.net/U+1F310) to address the world:
```

```{.crystal .crystal-play}
puts "Hello 🌐"
```

Working with unicode symbols can be a bit tricky sometimes. Some characters may not be supported by your editor font, some characters are not even printable. As an alternative, Unicode characters can be expressed as an escape sequence. A backslash followed by the letter `u` denotes a Unicode codepoint. The codepoint value is written as hexadecimal digits enclosed in curly braces. The curly braces can be omitted if the codepoint has exactly four digits.

```{.crystal .crystal-play}
puts "Hello \u{1F310}"
```

## Transformation

> Consider you want to change something about a string. Maybe scream the message and make it all uppercase?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's say you want to change something about a string. Maybe scream the message and make it all uppercase?
```

The method `String#upcase` converts all lower case characters to their upper case equivalent.
The opposite is `String#downcase`. There are a couple more similar methods, which let us express our message in different
styles:

```{.crystal .crystal-play}
message = "Hello World! Greetings from Crystal."

puts "normal: #{message}"
puts "upcased: #{message.upcase}"
puts "downcased: #{message.downcase}"
puts "camelcased: #{message.camelcase}"
puts "capitalized: #{message.capitalize}"
puts "reversed: #{message.reverse}"
puts "titleized: #{message.titleize}"
puts "underscored: #{message.underscore}"
```

> The methods `#camelcased` and `#underscored` don't change our string, but try them with `"snake_cased"` or `"CamelCased"`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The methods `#camelcase` and `#underscore` don't change this particular string, but try them with the inputs `"snake_cased"` or `"CamelCased"`.
```

blank_string = ""

p! blank_string.blank?,
   blank_string.presence
```

## Equality and Comparison

You can test two strings for equality with the equality operator (`==`) and compare them with the
comparison operator (`<=>`). Both compare the strings strictly character by character.
Remember, `<=>` returns an integer indicating the relationship between both operands,
and `==` returns `true` if the comparison result it `0`, i.e. both values compare equally.

There is however also a `#compare` method which offers case insensitive comparison.

```{.crystal .crystal-play}
message = "Hello World!"

p! message == "Hello World",
   message == "Hello Crystal",
   message == "hello world",
   message.compare("hello world", case_insensitive: false),
   message.compare("hello world", case_insensitive: true)
```

## Partial Components

Sometimes it's not important to know whether a string matches another exactly, and you just want to
know if one string contains another. For example, let's check if the message is about Crystal using the
`#includes?` method.

```{.crystal .crystal-play}
message = "Hello World!"

p! message.includes?("Crystal"),
   message.includes?("World")
```

> What is particularly interesting is often at the beginning or end of a string. That's where the methods `#starts_with?` and `#ends_with?`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sometimes the beginning or end of a string are of particular interest. That's where the methods `#starts_with?` and `#ends_with?`
```

A solution is to calculate the length of the substring from the length of the entire string minus the lengths of beginning and end.

```{.crystal .crystal-play}
message = "Hello World!"

p! message[6, message.size - 6 - 1]
```

There's an easier way to do that: The index accessor can be used with a [`Range`](https://crystal-lang.org/api/latest/Range.html)
of character indices. A range literal consists of a start value and an end value, connected by two dots (`..`).
The first value indicates the start index of the substring, as before, but the second is the end index (as opposed to the length).
Now we don't need to repeat the start index in the calculation, because the end index is just the size minus two
(one for the end index, and one for excluding the last character).

It can be even easier: Negative index values automatically relate to the end of the string, so we don't need to calculate
the end index from the string size explicitly.

```{.crystal .crystal-play}
message = "Hello World!"

p! message[6..(message.size - 2)],
   message[6..-2]
```

## Substitution

> In a very similar manner, we can alter a string. Let's make sure we properly greet Crystal and nothing else.

Reviewer 2: Uh we literally can't alter a string. Maybe it's not important to stress that we *can't* but probably don't falsely say that we can.

Author: Hm, what would be a better term then?

> In a very similar manner, we can alter a string. Let's make sure we properly greet Crystal and nothing else.

Reviewer 2: I think this tutorial would improve a lot from first using the already-known operations to perform the substitution manually, before introducing the method to do it.

Author: What manual operations do you mean? Extracting substrings and stitching them back together?

Reviewer 2: Yes. `index`, `[..]`, `+`

Author: I'll add that in a follow-up.

Instead of accessing a substring, we call `#sub`. The first argument is again a range to indicate the location
that gets replaced by the value of the second argument.

```{.crystal .crystal-play}
message = "Hello World!"

p! message.sub(6..-2, "Crystal")
```

The `#sub` method is very versatile and can be used in different ways. We could also pass a search string as the first argument
and it replaces that substring with the value of the second argument.

```{.crystal .crystal-play}
message = "Hello World!"

p! message.sub("World", "Crystal")
```

> `#sub` only replaces the first instance of a search string. It's big brother `#gsub` applies to all instances.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`#sub` only replaces the first instance of a search string. Its big brother `#gsub` applies to all instances.
```
